It is easy to forget all the benefits we have in life.
Humans, are just a complex organism operating under simple rules. Based on the type of decisions we make, we are very similar to a bacteria or a blood worm. We emulate complexity, underneath the veil of complexity is a simple organism that is trying to satiate as much.
Most of the things we do are based on our history. Our history of experiences, results and outcomes. it is very hard to break out of these heuristics and biases. That we accrue over time, we are just as beholden by it as we are by our genes.
for me, I find it difficult to break out of the village kid mentality I have. I am stranded in a complex web of newness, where I find it difficult to navigate.

For example,
- I am too uptight, and having been in an environment which pushes any type of enjoyment away, it is just very difficult to enjoy happy moments, to just be in the moment without thinking about how this might be wrong. This is mostly because, when my father left us to go work abroad, something profound happened. When he was leaving, I vividly remember him saying "you have to take care of brother and amma now". It was like as if being handed a huge responsibility, I just can not let my family down, I just can't. I was in 2nd grade. I'd wake up at 5:30 to study for exams, which 2nd grader does that? I remember sitting by the stairs in my grandparent's home, with the lone zero watts bulb on, because I didn't want to disturb others.  even at that age, I used to think, playing outside would make me get less marks, so I wouldn't go out to play. (it was not like I had too many people to play with anyway). I remember days, when I used to cry to god for things to be simpler and to take care of my family. Even thinking about it, makes my eyes tear up, even now after so long. I guess it was too much for a small kid. and it just turned me into someone who's too rigid.
- Group of unknown people and/or women are difficult for me to navigate, because I double think everything and end up messing stuff. I can't emulate the weightless transitions that the city bred children show. I just become more and more remote in my mind. I am legit scared of being and interacting in crowded places with uptown looking people, because I'm constantly thinking of hundred different things in my head, like "is there something on my face?" "Oh my gosh I should be careful not to trip". This might mostly be because I was generally an introverted kid, who barely talked with anyone other than the people I knew from my childhood, because it was a very small village, and of course I've talked with everyone since my childhood.
- I am very beholden to movies. I have these internal urge to keep track of these stuff. I think, this is very much because, movies were just something I've never had in my childhood and have always wanted to watch them. I remember looking at posters and making up stories in my head about them, when I was a kid. And the fact that I used to love stories doesn't help either. I just get sucked into these more and more.
- I exaggerate the truth a little over the edge always, and have had it bite me multiple times. This has its place in my insecurity that people might not respect/care about you if you are useless or less worthy. I actually don't know why I do this, I sometimes lie about stuff which don't even matter. It's something that even I'm trying to understand.
- I am also very lazy and end up procrastinating forever. Given multiple options to be active, I tend to take the passive route. I attribute this to my father being very inactive and just normalizing sleeping hours on end.


A lot of time, I find it easy to close my eyes and imagine a future and the steps required, but most times, it is just impossible to 